Basic Rules for Magic:
    
    Terminology:
        Casting: the act of gathering and shaping mana to form the basis of a spell. Considered an action unless otherwise stated. Outside of combat, spells are 
            made as an an average (difficulty 2) check, with a number of ability die equal to their Mage Rank (so a character of Mage Rank 2 always has 2 abiltiy
            die to roll for "general magic checks"). The GM adds setback, challenge and boost die as normally. The casting process is divided into 3 stages:
                1) Gather Mana - This entails rolling the Force Die for Mana: Black Mages can use mana generated by the black dots. White Mages can use mana
                        generated by the white dots. A black mage may not use white dots and white mages may not use black dots, unless granted the abiltiy thru 
                        a talent or GM discretion.
                2) Form a spell/charge a spell - Humans have no way to hold "raw Mana". Mana gathered must be channeled into a spell right away or it dissipates; any 
                        mana gathered in a turn is discarded at the end of the turn unless it is channeled into a spell's creation, its upgrades or its mods. A spell 
                        cannot hold unallocated mana. Any mana channeled into a spell but not used towards upgrades are discarded at the end of the turn.
                3) Activate or hold the spell - Activating means that the spell, with all its current effects are rolled. Holding a spell means that the spell is 
                        unused and can be charged (upgraded) next round after more mana is gathered. No other actions can be taken, lest the spell's channeling be
                        interrupted and the spell fails.
            in the time between and incuding the first gathering of mana to just before the Activation or interrupt of said spell, the caster is considered to be 
            "channeling". So the "Casting process" is simplified to "channel" and "cast". Once "Casted" a spell cannot be modified.
        
        Interrupted Casting: the casting of a spell is considered inturrupted if the character is knocked unconcious by any means, begins casting a different spell,
            takes damage and fails their discipline check (difficulty is set by the amount of damage taken after soak is applied: 1 difficulty for each 2 damage taken
            (rounded up). Effects that activate on the enemie's weapons, such as blast, burn, ensnare, etc, cause a difficulty die to be upgraded to a 
            challenge die at a rate of 1 per rank of the qualtiy. For example; so getting hit with a grenade [10 base damage, blast 3], on a character with 4 soak
            would work out: 10 base damage reduced to 6 by soak, but with 3 extra damage from blast means a total of 9 damage, which means 5 difficulty die, 3 of which
            become challenge die, for a resulting roll of 3 challenge die and 2 difficulty die. In the case that the number of difficulty die would be less then the
            number of challenge die rolled, challenge die are downgraded one at a time and then upgraded by subsequent challenge die as normal. For example: if a 
            character is hit by a disorient(3) attack that would do them 1 damage after soak is applied, then they wroll a base of 1 difficulty die, upgraded to a
            challenge die by the first rank in disorient. the second rank of disorient has no difficulty die to be upgraded, and becomes a difficulty die (now at 1
            challenge, 1 difficulty) the third rank of disorient upgrades the now available difficulty die to a challenge, resulting in a final roll of 2 challenge
            die. Any actions taken beyond "charge spell", "use spell" or "attack with spell" will cause the spell to immidiately be interrupted. Interrupted spells
            immediately dissapate, All Mana associated with them is discarded. If for any reason the caster decides they do not want the spell any longer, it is also
            considdered an Interrupt.

        Mod: mods are spell components, unlocked by spending XP within each spell's tree that add weapon qualities to the spell. spell components that increase
            range, damage, (like Range: medium and Intensity in the Prime fire spell tree) or that  are not considered mods. A number of mods equal to a mage's
            Mage Rank can be added.


        Black Mages: Black mages use the black dots on the force die to represent mana gathered. "Black mage" is just an meta-game discription. There is no stigmata
            attached to the title, it is simply used by players and GMs to describe what dots the mage is limited to using during mana collection

        White Mages: White mages use the white dots on the force die to represent mana gathered. "White mage" is just an meta-game discription. There is no stigmata
            attached to the title, it is simply used by players and GMs to describe what dots the mage is limited to using during mana collection

        Grey Mages: Grey mages can use both the white dots and black dots on the force die to represent mana gathered. "Grey mage" is just an meta-game discription. 
            There is no stigmata, or rank attached to the title, it is simply used by players and GMs to describe what dots the mage uses during mana collection

        Archanist: Archanists are one of the Mage career specializations. their special abilities are imbuing items with spells. Their general role in Mage society
            are those of scientists, teachers, and librarians.

        Imbuing: A spell is cast on an item in such a way that it burns the nature of the spell onto the item. Later on, the spell can be activated simply by gathering
            the mana for the base spell, additional spell components (mods, range or damage) do not require extra Mana, because "filling a vessel takes less energy 
            than creating and filling the same vessel". Items can only ever be imbued with one spell, attempting to imbue a second spell, even overwriting or upgrading 
            the first spell causes the energies to "fight" and mix unstably, resulting in the permanent destruction of both the vessel and the spell. Imbuing a spell
            requires a check whose difficulty is equal to the number of mana required to cast the original spell. Each mod increases one difficulty die to a challenge
            die. If there more difficulty-to-challange upgrades then there are die, then a new difficulty die is added and subsequent upgrades are applied to it before
            more die are added. Only spells that a caster can cast can be imbued onto an item: a caster of mage rank 2 cannot add 3 mods to a spell to be imbued onto
            and item. If the imbue fails, the spell breaks, but the item remains unscathed. 
