Prime Fire

Ignition:
    Cost: 1 Mana
    Range: Engaged      Duration: 1 round       Amount: 1 Match's worth     Damage: 1
    For 1 Mana, create either an instantaneous, violent spark (like that created by sparking the leads of a car battery) or a persistent flame of size [AMOUNT} is 
    created. The spark or flame is always created at engaged range to the caster, but may continue to exist, assuming that it is withing [RANGE] of the caster. Once
    the flame goes beyond [RANGE] of the caster, it will last [DURATION] turns, after which, it is treated like normal fire: without adequate fuel, it will burn 
    itself out. With adequate fuel, the fire will last indefineately, and should be treated as non-magic. Beginning to channel another spell, or making an attack with 
    the created flame/spark causes the flame/spark to be consumed. When fire created via "Ignition" is used to "Imbue" an item, that item will retain its properties for
    [DURATION] turns, after which the spell needs to be re-applied. The spell Imbuing and object will be cancelled if the caster starts channeling another spell, but
    may also be canceled by the caster as an incendental. Imbued items have the spell's damage added to their base value, and any special qualites of the spell are
    treated as if they are a part of the imbued item attacks with imbued items are made with the skill associated with the item (brawl or melee). Spells used to make 
    ranged attacks can be made against any target within [RANGE] range of the caster as a "Ranged (light)" attack. If flames created via "Igntion" are made against 
    targets beyond [RANGE] range, the attack automatically fails, and the Mana associated with the spell are discarded. Fire lit by a "spark" created by "Ignition"
    is treated as non-magical fire, it cannot be controled by a mage, nor can any attributes be added to it. If a player takes damage during the channeling of a spell
    they are required to make a disciple check [1 difficulty per 2 damage taken]; failure of the check results in the spell being cancelled, and all the Mana 
    associated with the spell is discarded. 
    

Range: Short
    Cost: 1 Mana
    Increases the "Range" stat of the "Ignition" Spell to "Short". A spell ranged "Short" can be made against targets at short or engaged ranges with no penalty.

Range: Medium
    Cost: 1 Mana
    Incraesed the "Range" stat of the "Ignition" spell to "Medium". A spell ranged "Medium" can be made against targets at engaged, short or Medium ranges with
        no penalty.

Range: Long
    Increases the "Range" stat of the "Ignition" spell to "Long". A spell  ranged "Long" can be made against targets at engaged, short, medium or long ranges
        with no penalty.


